all right today I'm going to talk to you
about the SAS org chart um based on a
substack by that name and um it's really
about you know what a typical series a
org looks like at the series a series B
and series C stage and that's not to say
that you know it has to look perfectly
like this but I find it that it's
helpful I get into a lot of
conversations with Founders right after
they've raised their series a round or a
series B or C round and the conversation
always turns to well what you know who
do we need to hire what are we missing
and that's what that's what this
presentation is about um typically the
series a company it's around 50
employees that doesn't mean you're at 50
at the time you raise a series a round
it's usually what that's the target
that's what you're trying to get to most
of the companies when we you know write
a series a term sheet they're in the I'd
say 10 to 20 employee range
and they're looking to sort of roughly
double you know in size over the next
say 6 months um series B again that's
more of a Target about 125 employees
series C about
400 by the way how many people here are
founders or employees of I'm trying to
understand uh like what stage you're at
if you're pre-series a raise your hand
okay a lot okay if you have raised a
series a but not yet a b raise your hand
okay and if you've raised a b but not
yet a c okay and if if you're series C
or Beyond raise your hand okay so it's
mostly people who are in this Like
pre-series A or pre-series B uh time
frame so I'll try to focus on
those just some uh sort of Handy rules
of thumb uh in terms of number of
employees you know one heuristic uh to
think about is the number of employees
uh per ARR for a company uh it's a
useful rule of thumb we know based on
publicly available data that um that at
IPO the the average sort of uh SAS
company at IPO has about a th000
employees and about 100 million of ARR
so that ends up being about $100,000 of
AR per employee and we can kind of work
backwards from there so as you go
earlier the amount of AR per employee um
shrinks because obviously L as a company
scales up it should becoming more
efficient you should be getting more
operating leverage what you'll typically
see is at the series a you know you'll
have like I said about 40 to 50
employees around a million dollar of ARR
that works out to about 20 to $25,000 of
AR per
employee um series B you know
historically series B stage SAS
companies had about 5 million of AR
again about 100 125 employees that' be40
to $50,000 of AR per employee series C
you know might be at 20 million of AR
400 employees that'd be about 50 to
66,000 of AR per employee these ratios
are always moving around right now it's
a pretty frothy environment we're seeing
a lot of series A's get done at say half
million of AR and so that's going to
imply less AR per employee but this
gives you some idea of like whether your
employee head count uh your total
headcount is somewhat sane relative to
to other SAS bench
marks um some other ratios I think are
are just helpful as a as a rule of thumb
as you scale um about 10% of your
organization should be GNA uh about 40%
R&D and 50% sales and marketing uh you
can see that on either a a sort of a
dollar cost basis or on a headcount
basis either way that should roughly
work uh for every five or 10 somewhere
between 5 and 10 employees you do need a
manager uh like a really lean
organization would have say one manager
for every 8 to 10 uh employees and you
know uh a sort of a a less lean
organization might have one manager for
every five reports if you're seeing
stuff like having one manager for every
two reports you have created way too
many lines and your organization doesn't
make sense uh some other thing raist
keep in mind we typically see if you
have an SDR team it doesn't make sense
sense for all SAS companies but if it
makes sense for you about one SDR for
every two AES uh for every 10 AES you're
going to need uh a headcount for sales
operations uh that's the sales Ops does
stuff like set up your Salesforce
instance or work out territories and
comp plans um so for every 10 e you're
going to need a sort of an overhead uh
headcount um you're going to need one PM
roughly for every 5 to eight developers
um and then you know about one devops
head for for every 15 developers one
designer for every I'd say 5 to eight
developers and then you know as your
organization gets into that series C and
you've got you know teams with large
numbers of designers like 10 designers
you can start getting to Super
specialized roles like even like a user
research person you might have that for
every 10 designers so those are some
handy rules of thumb to help you
scale and let me just kind of jump into
what I think like a typical 40 to 50
person SAS series a stage org looks like
and again you don't have to look exactly
like this but the idea here is just to
kind of if you don't have one of these
functions you might want to kind of ask
yourself why is that deliberate are we
different than any other SAS company or
have we just not thought to hire this
role yet so you know on the R&D side
you've got the the CTO organization
typically the CTO co-founder and you've
got the product organization uh CTO
you're going to have some front end
engineers some backend Engineers working
on the website you're going to have um
some a couple of mobile Engineers doing
the client applications you're going to
have you know at least one engineer
doing core services or platforms this is
kind of um apis uh you'll probably have
uh at at this stage by about 50
employees you're going to have an
engineer working on analytics and also
Dev Ops in your
infrastructure product I'm a big fan of
having ahe a product who reports
directly to the founder CEO I think it's
an important way typically you know most
SAS Founders these days are product
Founders and um I think it's important
for them to stay involved in the product
and the way I always saw it was that the
product managers were kind of like my
hands when I was you know CEO running
these companies so I think it's
important for the product organization
even though it's very small to report
directly to the founder CEO I sometimes
I see it tucked under the CTO and
obviously that can work too but um I
feel like it's a better way for the the
founder to stay involved in the product
and get leverage to have this uh report
directly to them um head a product
you'll have one or two PMS like like I
mentioned before you want to have you
know one PM for every 5 to 10 you know
developers and you're going to have by
this point by about a 50 person or
you're going to have uh a couple of
designers um and again that same sort of
ratio in that 5 to 10 developer range
you're going to need a designer um then
we move over to sales and marketing
you're going to want to have a head of
sales uh by this point you're going to
have about a dozen people in your sales
organization um it's amazing how early
segmentation starts um you're going to
have AES for Enterprise AE for midmarket
AE is for SMB this is for most SAS
companies what SB midmar Market or
Enterprise means your Market might be
different but typically it just means
small medium and large size customers uh
the the reason why you're going to want
to have that segmentation is because um
you know the the SNB sales are going to
be high
velocity uh fewer fewer calls the uh
it's it's going to be uh typically a
lower uh lower commission lower uh quota
uh less experienced sales rep On The
Other Extreme Enterprise are there more
complicated sales bigger acvs you're
going to need a more experienced AE to
typically work them and if you uh have
the same a working everywhere from super
small to super large deals the gear
switching becomes very difficult so
you'll end up segmenting very quickly
and having uh AES who focus on either
sort of small medium and large uh you'll
have sdrs the job of the SDR is to
essentially filter the leads uh you can
have either inbound or outbound sdrs
inbound they're filtering leads that
come inbound to the sales team outbound
means that they themselves are creating
the leads that doesn't work in every SAS
company uh so you want to be careful
about that sales Ops like I mentioned
you now have a large enough team that
the head of sales is going to need some
support just to basically maintain your
Salesforce instance to get the the plans
all set up the territor those are going
to be changing every quarter you're
probably going to want to start doing a
sales kickoff you may want to start
doing training uh you're starting to
develop the need for some real I'd say
like overhead and infrastructure in
order to make these AE successful you
can't just hire like five new AES and
expect them to become successful without
having any support whatsoever um and you
might need a sales engineer as well so
what a sales engineer does is they're a
resource that gets pulled into a sales
conversation by an AE to deal with
highly technical parts of the
conversation so if you have a SAS
product that's a highly technical
product or let's say there's security
concerns uh what you want to do is have
the a AE pull in that sales engineer at
a critical moment in the conversation so
that the AE doesn't have to be uh a an
expert on every technical aspect of your
a every technal aspect of your product
and you know one of the things that
comes up all the time with Founders when
they're first building their sales team
is they ask should I be hiring for a
salesperson who has proven sales skills
but doesn't know my market doesn't know
uh what we're building uh specifically
or do I hire the person who's got
incredible domain expertise incredible
domain knowledge but has never done
sales before they always make the
mistake of choosing the domain expert um
I would say you should almost always
choose the sales expert a good
salesperson a good AE will learn your
product will learn your Market that's
what they've done their whole careers
trying to teach somebody who's never
done sales before who just happens to
understand your Market how to do sales
that is a much harder lift I mean sales
Talent is very much wired into people's
personalities it's not something that
can necessarily be be taught at some
late stage of their career so back to
the point of having a sales engineer one
of the ways that you compensate for the
fact that you're a are not necessarily
technical Masters about every aspect of
what you're building is you actually do
have some highly technical people on the
sales team who get pulled into those
conversations shifting gears you know
once you have uh enough customers to
generate a million dollars of AR you're
going to want to make sure those
customers successful you're going to
want to retain them that's where the
customer success management team comes
in and once again you're going to want
to if your sales team is segmented your
CSM team should be segmented as well
you're going to have a CSM who Fus on
Enterprise you're going to have a CSM
who focuses on midmarket for SNB
typically it doesn't pencil to have um
to have uh C CSM specifically for super
small accounts so what you're going to
do instead is have a pulled model of
customer support and you're going to
have a couple of customer support reps
and then if your product requires if
it's difficult to implement at all and a
lot of St products are not completely
self-explanatory and self- implementing
you're probably going to want to start
building an implementation uh team and
we might call those people Solutions
engineers and again they're an important
part of um getting a new leign customer
to be correctly onboarded and then
they're going to hand off the
relationship to a
CSM shifting over to marketing we've got
ahead of marketing we're going to have a
couple one or two demand gen marketers
they're focused typically on paid
campaigns they're running a lot of
experiments uh I tend to think of these
people as being highly quantitative
because they're uh running a lot of
tests
and that that's sort of like what I call
the math section of the SAT there's
there's also the the verbal section uh
where you've got product marketing
posting release notes blogs um customer
case studies you're going to have a
sales enablement marketer whose job is
to create all the collateral to make the
sales team effective uh and and that
person could live under sales but I tend
to think of it as a marketing role and
then finally I'm a big fan of doing
events and building your community as
early as possible even having AE at the
series A stage and then finally we've
got the pure overhead which is you which
I tend to lump under Finance you've got
sort of an fpna fpna analyst they're
building the financial model for your
business uh you've got an accountant
you've got an HR person there's going to
be some miscellaneous Ops person and
then recruiting I'm a big fan if you
know you're going to be hiring a lot of
roles I'm a big fan of bringing
recruiting inhouse it's fine to also use
outside agencies especially for retained
searches but you know if you bring
recruiting in house you get a dedicated
resource who understands your culture
and if you know you're going to be you
know you're at 40 employees on your way
to a series B with 125 why not bring
them inh housee so that you know they're
building your company culture in the way
that you want one thing you'll notice
here is that I've called the heads of a
lot of these departments head of sales
as opposed to uh VPS sales or um or
chief Revenue officer the reason for
that I find this works with a lot of my
series a companies is they're not sure
if that person is their long-term C for
example and so by calling somebody ahead
of you actually give yourself a little
bit of wiggle room as we'll see with
series B and series C Series B you know
you're You're Building um an exec team
you you are uh these people will be VPS
and by the time you get to C to series C
these people are going to be uh sea
level officers but at this point they
could be VPS they could be sea levels
you're not quite sure yet uh that's
that's the reason for the ambiguity so
this is what your typical 50 person SAS
org would look like uh you know what I
find at the time that we make a series a
investment is that the technology
organization looks pretty much like this
because in order to get off the ground
they've had to had you know a dozen
people building the product they are
starting to have one or two AES uh
hiring a VPS sales or the head of sales
is an almost Universal need uh in the
series A companies we invest in maybe
they've got one person doing CSM but
they're starting to scramble and realize
wait a second we've signed all these
customers and we don't have any we don't
really have a team of people to make
them successful there might be like one
person doing the marketing but they
haven't subdivided those roles yet and
then you know like HR and recruiting are
almost like an afterthought so those are
the areas that we tend to see that the
hiring needs to happen
ASAP okay so now we get to you know more
of a series B you you're at you know say
5 million of ARR uh you're you're not
necess at 125 employees yet maybe you're
at like 50 or 60 like the previous chart
what are you hiring to
now and you're you're going to start
building your exec team so the the the
founder CEO now going should have uh
real Executives VPS or hire reporting to
them you're going to have a CTO you're
going to have a VP of product you're
going to have a VP of sales a VP of
marketing and a VP of Finance maybe some
of these people are sea levels maybe
instead of a VP of Finance you have a
CFO maybe in a VP of sales you have a c
but I wouldn't necessarily uh guarantee
those titles yet um unless you know that
that person really can scale to 400
person or like we'll see next um the
other big theme in building for the
series B is that all of those IC roles I
showed you on the previous slide now
become teams and this is really the big
change and just going going from 50 to
125 employees it's remarkable how in
order to do that every single function
that used to just be one IC now becomes
a team of people and that means that one
of the big things you're doing at this
sort of series B stage is building out
your mid-level management which simply
didn't exist at the series a stage so
let me give you some
examples so in R&D we're going to go
from roughly 12 uh headcount to about 40
and if you look under the CTO
we're now going to have a web team we're
going to have a team of client apps
we're going to have a team for platform
or core Services we're going to
introduce a new QA function you might
not have had maybe all the developers
were doing their own QA before now we're
actually going to have a dedicated QA
function I think that can be again you
get to a higher level of scale you can
afford that uh and you're going to have
an infrastructure team you're going to
have a security team you're going to
have analytics you're have it generally
speaking all these teams are now going
to have managers so before it was just
some you know you had web engineers you
had um Engineers working on the mobile
apps you had some Engineers working on
the apis but now you actually have teams
of those people and certainly with like
if you have 14 you know web Engineers
you can certainly afford to have a
director there uh if you have six mobile
Engineers you should have someone
leading that team so all of a sudden you
have a lot more mid-level management uh
and and this is where I think you the
the the rubber kind of meets the road in
scaling is how you going to now fill
those roles uh you can either promote
from within or you can H hire from the
outside uh you want to do both is is the
answer I am a big fan of promoting from
within whenever possible uh you probably
want at least 50% of these management
roles to be promotions when when they
can be uh but if they can't because you
simply don't have someone who can manage
the team then you got to look outside
that actually is that's a lot of
recruiting that you have to
do product organization you're now up to
something like five product managers
you're up to five designers um you're
definitely going to need you know a
strong VP product for that uh maybe that
person if you know they're they're the
long-term head of product maybe you give
them the the chief product officer
title but you're going now going to need
a strong product leader uh who the CEO
can delegate to uh before even at the
series a stage the founder CEO is
probably running product in a very
Hands-On way now it's a little different
now they've got too much to do they're
going to need a a VP product and the
most important thing about this head of
product is that they see eye to eye with
the founder they have the same product
instincts as the founder and they're
also have to be good at project
management because a lot of what APR
product does is just make the trains run
on time it's hard to find somebody who
is creatively aligned with the founder
uh but also is just very good execution
at making everything
run sales and marketing you're going to
see a big increase in the size of these
organizations you're going from roughly
say 27 to 60 once again the big theme is
that that you're going from a handful of
ic's to a team uh so for example you're
now going to have five Enterprise AES
that's like a whole team you're going to
have uh roughly four midmarket AES four
SB AES and by the way it doesn't have to
look exactly like this okay I got these
numbers out of I actually went back and
looked at my or chart for Yammer and
that's where I got these numbers and
then I sort of uh like I I then um
adjusted the numbers based on what I'm
seeing at at our portfolio companies to
kind of take off the idiosyncratic rough
edges so this is roughly what I would
see at a company that sells to all three
segments but doesn't have to look
exactly like this for example you know
you probably it's probably a little too
early to hire a director of menm market
and a director of s SMB you could have
one director for those eight AES so you
know there you have a lot of flexibility
here but you are going to need at by
this point a director of Enterprise
sales you're going to need a director of
probably mid-market SMB it might be time
to hire a specialist who just focuses on
renewals uh you're going to have an SDR
team if there's like six of those people
they're going to need some sort of
manager and now you're going to have you
know sales Ops given the size of the
sales team there's not just going to be
one sort of overhead role there's going
to be a
few CSM similarly uh that organization
is now blown up to around 19 people
you're going to have um half a dozen
csms for Enterprise five for S&B and
midmarket the the implementation team
has gone from a IC to an actual team and
you're going to now actually have a
customer support org as well and you're
going to be looking for a customer
support leader so again going from you
know One customer support rep to to say
four and you're now looking for someone
who's actually run a customer support
department before that's the big change
going from series a to series B uh
similarly the the um the marketing
organization you might have now a
CMO uh you've got a product marketing
team you've got a lead gen team you got
a sales enablement team and you got a
brand Market marketing team these are
all very different kinds of marketing
you know back at the c or series a stage
again you may have just had one or two
marketing people who kind of wore a lot
of hatson did everything now you're
getting into some
specialization and then GNA um it should
this is largely overhead so you want to
keep this pretty lean I've got it going
from about 6 to 13 in 125 person org so
you've got a couple of people doing um
fpna Financial Planning and Analysis
that is becoming a much more important
function because your uh payroll has
gone up a lot you're burning a lot more
money you need to make sure you're
planning that correctly you now have a
controller a controller is a fancy term
for head accountant so you've gone from
you know one uh IC accountant to
actually having a controller for the
company they have a couple of
accountants under them they're doing
stuff like invoicing and billing making
sure that they're actually collecting on
your customer contracts uh you now have
a recruiting team uh and you now have uh
you actually need a director of HR
um all right so now we get to series C
400 employees you're getting pretty
pretty big company at this point again
you're at about 20 to 30 million of
ARR and by this point the big themes of
building the series C team are that by
this point you should be settling on in
on your long-term sea level organization
so hopefully youve still got your CTO
co-founder uh but now your vpf product
has graduated to a chief product officer
your VP of sales has graduated to a
chief Revenue officer or we call this
Chief customer officer um same thing you
now have a CMO you have a CFO and so
your VPS from the series a or series B
either need to level up into the c-level
skill set which really requires them to
manage you know several times as many
people uh or you've maybe layered them
you know and that's a choice that's a a
decision you're going to have to make as
a CEO these are the types of of
decisions that come up all the time as
you move from series B to series C um
you now have in the company you now have
a whole category of executive that
didn't exist before which is a VP who's
managing a pretty large team but doesn't
report directly to the CEO they're
reporting to one of these sea levels you
can now afford a lot more specialized
roles um you may be thinking about
International expansion in fact you
probably have gone International by this
point uh and then the other option that
you have is at this this level of scale
you can think about acquiring companies
mainly Aqua hires but you actually have
the the bandwidth you've got the
Personnel to be able to absorb sort of a
small acquisition in aqua hire and so
it's something certainly not something
you have to do but if you thought it was
strategic for you it's now an
option so looking at the the R&D
organization I mean it's scaled pretty
substantially from 51 to 137 by this
point you're absolutely going to need a
vpf engineering uh this is somebody who
helps the CTO with the actual managing
of the
organization uh you know it's pretty
commonly the case that the co-founder
CTO is chosen because of their technical
chops and vision they may not have the
management experience to run a 100
person organization you're going to need
to supplement this with a more
experienced engineering manager um the
the teams themselves are the same
they've just gotten bigger and you're
now going to need a lot more mid-level
management uh same thing over in the
product organization you're probably
going to need a director of product
management you're going to need a
director of design uh but you can also
afford some super specialized roles like
people who are doing user research even
like a dedicated copywriter uh you can
start to do things like
that sales and marketing so this
organization's gotten really big right
because as you've scaled from say 5
million to 20 million of ARR and next
year you probably want to do 50 million
plus of ARR your sales and marketing
organization especially sales has gotten
really big and so you're now going to
need not just a cro who manages all of
it you're going to need a VP of
Enterprise sales you're going to need a
VP for midmarket sales VP for S&B you're
going to need um uh an SDR director I
you could easily have 20 25 sdrs on the
team you're going to need a very
substantial uh director of VP of SDR um
you're going to need a a VP of sales Ops
not just a handful of sales you're
actually going to need someone who
can run the sales Ops team that that
functions become pretty large and then
the other thing you're going to have by
now is training you know with this many
sales reps and the rate at which you're
hiring uh and the need to do a sales
kickoff at the beginning of every
quarter you're going to need an entire
training organization just to keep these
people up to speed on all the changes
happening in the product um and
acculturating all the new hires you also
probably by now have hired a VP of
bizdev someone to do
Partnerships that doesn't need to be a
big team you just want someone pretty
high power doing it with with a couple
of um assistants and then we move over
to CSM I mean similarly this has become
a very big team we have the the same
segmentation but you're definitely going
to need a director of Enterprise CSM
director of midmarket customer Sports
gotten a lot bigger they're going to
need their own trainers uh and we move
over to marketing um you're going to
need uh a VP of corporate marketing for
the first time that's become a pretty
big team you're going to have um a
couple people doing PR you're going to
have one or two people doing AR which is
analy relationships I think this is
actually kind of an underappreciated
role for if you're at 20 million of AR
if you're at the series C stage you
really want to be uh trying to convince
the market that you're the category
leader and so having you know a couple
of specialized heads who do nothing but
interact with analysts can be helpful
you're going to be doing events you're
going to be doing community you're
probably going to have a an entire
creative team um and then you've still
got those other you the old marketing
functions product marketing demand gen
sales enablement
but they're all going to have directors
now and then finally you can see this
last box on the right that's in yellow
is international so one of the things
that we did around this time uh at at at
my company is we actually opened um an
office in London it was for our Amia
team and we decided to go cross
functional there so we actually had a GM
for AIA and within that organization we
had Enterprise uh sales SNB and M market
sales we had sdrs we had CS M we had
sales and solutions Engineers we let
them have their own uh recruiting team
and uh and gave them their own Ops head
count to so they could manage pretty
self-sufficiently and this allow and we
didn't do a ton of development out there
a product remained centralized back home
but this was a great way to enable the
international team just to go out and
sort of conquer Europe have all the
roles they needed uh so they didn't have
to be dependent back on on the
mothership so that was another thing
that we did we had about 60 people
uh under rgm in
Europe and then uh GNA by this point you
should have a general counsel you should
have a a VP of f fpna not just an
analyst but you actually need pretty
high-powered VP of fpna and then you
want to have a VP of people again
somebody pretty high powerered in the HR
rule so that's pretty much it I mean I
think the overall frame here as you
think about it is if you're raising
money for a series a what you're really
doing is building an org of ic's you
kind of want to make sure that you've
got an IC covering all the major
functions you're probably in addition to
the founders you're probably going to
have four or five real managers or
leaders it's mostly an org of ic's and
it's and it's an organization of a lot
of generalists you're really just trying
to cover all the bases by the time you
get to the series B it's really an
organization of teams all of those IC
roles have now become teams and the Big
Challenge is going to be Staffing up mid
level management and then by the time
you get to the series C it's really uh
an organization of functional areas
where you're going to have uh real
Executives you want to have sea levels
repor the CEO and you're going to want
to have uh VPS under them so it's you're
really going to be focused on building
up an organization of Executives so with
that thank you very much
[Music]